‎SAY NO TO PIRACY, SUPPORT ORIGINALS
‎ADAPTED FROM XI XING’S NOVE
‎QUEEN CHU‎ ON QIDIAN.COM
ONE MONTH EARLIER
Stay still.
The wound is just starting to scab.
Take it easy.
I am alive?
Yes. Even the Underworld
wouldn't dare claim a soul
with such a baleful aura.
It’s good you’re still alive.
Being alive is a blessing.
Here, have some water.
Careful.
The wound missed your heart by a hair.
What about the Northern Desert King?
Nothing left to bury.
With the internal strife over there,
they will not be able
to bother us for a while.
Do not move. Why are you so stubborn?
Lie back down.
I must go back.
I know you are longing to see Zhao.
But surviving comes first, alright?
The Capital is in turmoil,
but rest assured.
I will find someone
to let her know you are alive.
Besides, if you go there now,
how would you protect her?
Zhao,
wait for me.
ONE DAY EARLIER
Jiu.
The moon is full again.
It really is you.
It's me.
Your Highness, you shouldn't go.
Xie Yanfang has been plotting for so long,
all for this trap at the hunting grounds.
If I don't walk into it,
how can he reveal his true colors?
What if he truly intends to kill you?
Then I'll bet
on who can outlast
the other.
Yanlai?
You're alive.
Xie Yanfang.
Frontier Troops, heed my command.
FRONTIER TROOPS TOKEN
This is
the Token to mobilize the frontier troops.
Seize the rebel, Xie Yanlai, at once.
You have survived a brush with death.
How gratifying.
It's a pity, though,
that someone will die.
Do not harm her!
What,
does your heart ache for her?
Then go die in her stead,
using this poisoned dagger
Her Highness prepared for the two of us.
Don't listen to him.
Frontier Troops, heed my command.
-Execute…
-Your Highness, have you forgotten
the Frontier Troops
answer only to this token?
You told me that yourself.
Yanlai.
-Do it!
-Stop!
Don't.
Don't. The dagger is poisoned.
Indeed, the Golden Finch Venom
has no cure.
Think carefully
whether her life is worth yours.
No. Jiu, don't.
-Jiu.
-Will you keep
your word?
-Certainly.
-Jiu.
Don't.
The dagger is poisoned. Don't.
That will do.
Let them leave.
Mr. Xie, why let them go?
I want to see
how a cornered beast
breaks out of its cage.
Mr. Xie, please take this first.
Jiu.
Jiu. Jiu. Jiu.
Jiu. Jiu.
Jiu.
I'm sorry.
I feel utterly useless
for failing to kill Xie Yanfang for you.
Don't worry about me.
Go.
-Go.
-Jiu, don't fall asleep.
I don't need you to kill him for me. Jiu.
We were of the same blood.
Yanlai, I must trouble you
to join me on the road to the afterlife.
Chu Zhao,
can we have a proper talk now?
Do you truly wish
to watch him die in such agony?
I know the Golden Finch Venom.
As it takes effect,
it feels like fire
burning through one's internal organs
before one coughs up blood and dies.
His face will contort,
his body will wither,
and he will die slowly in agony.
-Chu Zhao.
-Zhao, don't listen to him.
Do you want to save him?
Zhao.
Don't listen to him.
He came for you, and he is dying for you.
Do you really not want to save him?
You should.
This is
the Nanjiang Millennium Snow Lingzhi.
It can keep him alive.
As long as I live,
so shall he.
Zhao.
How ironic.
You intended to kill me,
yet you've ended up
killing your most beloved.
Zhao.
Don't listen to him.
I'm not afraid of death.
Don't agree to his terms. I beg you.
Zhao.
Are you still
thinking of killing me?
Then think carefully.
If I die,
Yanlai dies with me.
Will you kill me,
or save your beloved?
Just promise to return to court
and serve as a puppet for the Xie Clan,
and I shall sustain his life.
I can hand Yu
and the State of Chu to you.
Zhao.
Do you remember…
your promise…
to grant me a wish?
I want you
to refuse his terms.
From now on, whatever wish you hold,
you may ask it of me.
Come fire or high water,
I will see it fulfilled.
I honor my promises and never renege.
Forgive me, Jiu.
I had
to break my word now.
Jiu. Jiu.
In court, you follow my lead from here on.
Only then can Yanlai's life be guaranteed.
Frontier troop stipends
shall be reduced by 30%,
TAIJI HALL
and the funds shall be redirected
to the southern grain transport.
Frontier troop stipends
shall be reduced by 30%,
and the funds shall be redirected
to the southern grain transport.
Xie Xuan from the Xie Clan…
…is promoted to Senior Counselor
of the Grand Commandant's Office…
…effective immediately.
RECOMMEND XIE XUAN TO THE COMMANDANT.
PROPOSE 20% MORE TAX THIS AUTUMN.
This year's autumn tax
shall be raised by 20%
to fill the state treasury.
This year's autumn tax
shall be raised by 20%
to fill the state treasury.
Your Highness, the frontier
is bracing for war.
Cutting military pay at such a time
may not be wise.
The Northern Desert has withdrawn.
The frontier stands secure.
No need for surplus military expenditure.
The Northern Desert has withdrawn.
The frontier stands secure.
No need for surplus military expenditure.
I believe Her Highness has a valid point.
-Seconded.
Then it is settled.
What does Your Majesty think?
The Grand Princess
has considered everything.
I am reassured.
Your Majesty is still growing.
Do eat more.
-I dreamed of Uncle Yanlai yesterday.
-One does not speak while eating.
-He was teaching me…
-Your Majesty.
If anyone deserves your consideration,
it is Uncle Yanfang.
It is his supervision
of the canal transport
that keeps the grain
from Jiangnan flowing.
Without the Xie Family,
how could this state ever stand firm?
Is Uncle Yanlai still alive?
I will not let him die.
The soup has grown cold. Fetch a hot one.
She's handled all matters you entrusted
during this morning's court session.
She has an excellent memory.
At tomorrow's court,
propose a 30% increase
in commercial taxes,
citing the reasons stated above.
Has the medicine been delivered
to Cangmu Stronghold?
They have collected it.
I gave Chu Zhao my word.
As long as I draw breath,
Yanlai shall not die.
I cannot break faith with her.
Your Highness,
Mr. Xie vomited blood again this morning.
The Imperial Physician fears
he may not survive the winter.
How many days remain
until His Majesty's 12th birthday?
Your Highness.
Twenty-five days.
It seems
I cannot pull through after all.
Mr. Xie, please do not say
such ominous things.
Why fear death?
Yu is about to take the reins himself,
and he carries
the blood of the Xie Family.
Yet should anything happen to you,
and Her Highness seizes this chance
to consolidate power…
I sacrificed so many lives
to forge an emperor from the Xie Family.
I will not let that effort go to waste.
No one can resist the allure of power,
especially a young emperor.
A true emperor
will never endure
being a puppet for a lifetime.
Once Yu assumes direct rule,
he will never tolerate
Chu Zhao's manipulation.
When the time comes,
we shall give him one final push.
I have an agreement with Yu.
The very first decree
he issues upon assuming direct rule
shall be the annihilation of the Chu Clan.
Your Majesty,
the military treatise…
I have no desire
to learn such things today.
Uncle Yanfang said
that reading people
is like reading the stars.
Your Majesty,
the art of reading the stars
is for the imperial astronomers.
Grand Princess,
I am the ruler, and you are my subject.
Your Majesty will soon assume direct rule
and must weigh all matters carefully.
This is for your good.
For my good?
Search your heart.
Do you truly hope for me to rule,
or are you desperate for me
to remain a puppet emperor
so you may keep the reins of power?
Your Majesty,
-I have never…
-Never?
Why do you act with such high-handedness
whenever I face critical affairs of state?
Why do you obstruct me at every turn
whenever I propose a different course?
Chu Zhao, is the taste
of absolute power so sweet
that you never intended to let go?
Is that truly how Your Majesty sees me?
Enough.
Save your excuses.
Guards, escort the Grand Princess
back to her palace
and confine her there to reflect
on her transgressions.
Your Majesty,
please forgive my presumption.
Just as Young Master Yanfang expected.
TAIJI HALL
DILIGENT AND VIRTUOUS
Kneel.
We congratulate Your Majesty
on assuming direct rule.
Ministers, rise.
-Thank you, Your Majesty.
My elder sister entered Taiji Hall bearing
the decree of supervising the court
and governed in my stead.
Now that the land is at peace
and I have assumed my rule,
she has earned her rest.
‎DILIGENT AND VIRTUOUS
I, Chu Zhao, congratulate Your Majesty
on assuming direct rule.
‎GRAND PRINCESS TOKEN
I have an edict to announce.
Why would His Majesty
deliver it in person?
It is the first decree
of His Majesty's direct rule.
It is of great significance.
Upon receiving this divine charge
to govern the state,
I remain ever diligent,
my thoughts centered solely
on the state and its people.
Chu Ling and Chu Zhao
have demonstrated steadfast loyalty,
ever mindful of the greater good
of the state.
The frontier is the shield of the state,
upon which the state's security depends.
Chu Ling, the Guard General,
having stood guard at the frontier
for decades,
repelled invaders and secured the state
with extraordinary feats.
Chu Zhao, the Grand Princess,
left the palace
to campaign in her father's stead.
Peerless in valor,
united in purpose with her father,
she expanded and defended the state.
Their monumental achievements stand
as a glorious example for all subjects
of the state to follow.
Yet Xie Yanfang, head of the Xie Clan,
steeped in generations of imperial favor
and raised to one
of the Three Excellencies,
was bound by duty
to serve with utter devotion
and uphold the order of the realm.
Instead, harboring treacherous intent
and behaving with monstrous depravity,
he colluded
with the Northern Desert bandits
to invite catastrophe,
leaving the frontier ravaged by war
and the populace displaced.
By forming internal factions
to purge the loyal,
he sought to usurp power
and deceive the throne,
his crimes too numerous to recount.
Most abhorrent remains
the tragedy at Wei Village,
where for personal gain,
he emboldened foreign enemies
to commit arson and slaughter
-to the entire village.
-Help! Please help me!
Such atrocities
are beyond human reason,
an abomination to all existence.
The laws of this land are unyielding,
and they will not stand
for such wicked defiance.
Though I ascended the throne in my youth,
I bear the legacy of my ancestors
and the trust of the people.
I shall act with uncompromising resolve
to purge all treachery and corruption.
All titles and ranks
of the Xie Clan are hereby stripped.
Their lands, estates, silver,
and valuables shall be confiscated.
All adult males of the Xie Clan
shall be beheaded forthwith.
The women and children
shall be exiled to the far frontier
as slaves.
Any pupils, former subordinates,
or accomplices involved in his crimes
must surrender within ten days.
Those captured after the deadline
shall face punishment threefold.
This decree is proclaimed
across the state.
Whoever colludes with the enemy,
betrays the state,
or harms the people shall be executed
with their entire clan,
to uphold the laws of the state
and serve as a warning to all.
May my ministers and I together
purge this corruption
and restore a prosperous age.
Your Majesty, please reconsider.
Mr. Xie is your own in-law.
Censor, mind your words.
I am a Xiao, not a Xie.
The state belongs to the Xiao Family.
I bring down the Xie Family
to save all the people.
Issue the decree.
Kowtow!
Mr. Xie, His Majesty
has decreed that your clan be purged.
What did you say?
This is the imperial edict
His Majesty announced
during this morning's court session.
He proclaimed that Chu Ling
and Chu Zhao's monumental achievements
shall be honored by the state,
while you are guilty of heinous crimes,
and your entire clan
is to be utterly eradicated.
‎CHU FAMILY’S MERITS SHOULD INSPIRE ALL.
‎XIE YANGFANG‘S CRIMES ARE UNFORGIVABLE.
Absurd.
Profoundly absurd.
How dare he?
Mr. Xie, we must leave at once.
The Imperial Guard
will reach Gaoyang shortly.
Leave?
Where to?
Flee to the frontier
or live in obscurity?
How could I suffer
such humiliation?
Mr. Xie, while there is life,
there is hope.
We leave now
and figure out the rest later.
TAIJI HALL
Xie Yanfang betrayed the state…
And opened the door
To the Northern Desert's blade
XIE RESIDENCE
Zhao, it is over.
Not yet.
HONOR THE CLAN, UNITE THE KIN
Your Highness,
it took you long enough.
Look.
Yanlai has finally gotten
exactly what he wanted.
TABLET OF XIE YANLAI
I remember him arriving
at the Xie household
at eight years old.
He was so timid and fearful of everything.
I held his hand and taught him to read…
XIE YANLAI
…and write.
The very first character
he learned to write
was Xie, as in our family name.
I told him
never to forget
his last name.
Yet
the clan elders,
disdaining his lowly origins,
refused to grant him the surname.
So, I sent him to the Wei village
to handle that business,
promising that if he succeeded,
I would persuade the elders
to add him to the genealogy.
Back then…
he was over the moon.
He never knew
that I was the one who took Xiang…
making him the lone scapegoat
for the massacre at the Wei Village.
And while he was investigating
the Xie Family's medicinal storage,
I had Du Qi kill the boy.
He was just a child.
What did he ever do to deserve that?
His only mistake
was that, after five years of captivity,
he still wanted to testify for Yanlai.
The irony of it all…
is that the life-saving pill
is useless without the second pill.
My intention was that
if Yanlai truly took it…
I could save him
when the poison set in,
and he would be indebted to me for life.
It comes back to me now.
By a twist of fate,
that is how your father met his end.
Not entirely bad news, I suppose.
Chu Zhao,
you may bring down the Xie Family,
but you cannot save Xie Yanlai.
The Golden Finch Venom has no cure.
He will die,
and even before I do.
Yanfang, despite all your calculating,
you are still one move behind.
Yanlai?
Impossible.
How are you still alive?
Because all of this
was a trap laid carefully for you.
This dagger is forged with two sides,
distinguished by gold and silver.
I will coat the gold side
with Golden Finch Venom in advance.
We are going to stage a death scene
right before his eyes.
You will strike yourself
with the silver, non-poisonous blade.
The wound, however,
must look absolutely real.
Only a lie built upon a grain of truth
can deceive them all.
I will play the part of a hostage,
forced back to the court
to serve as his puppet, day after day.
I could kill Xie Yanfang,
-even at the cost of my own life.
-No.
There will always be another Xie Yanfang.
We must leverage
the Xie Family's influence
to keep the court in check,
until Yu takes the reins.
Yes, Your Highness.
From that moment on,
everything you saw was a lie.
I knew you were
after the Frontier Troops Token,
so I instructed Zhong to feign submission.
What I failed to account for
was how far you would sink,
raising your blades
against the Longwei Army.
This is the medicine Xie Yanfang sent.
Using the cover of my convalescence
at Cangmu Stronghold,
I've been quietly gathering evidence
of the Xie Family's crimes.
Yet you were so intoxicated
by the thrill of pulling every string
that you let your guard down entirely.
The officials you have promoted
also allowed me to compile a complete list
of the Xie Family's faction
within the court.
Jiu and I
have always been working behind your back,
tirelessly molding Yu
into a capable ruler.
Yunzhong Prefecture is
the frontier stronghold of the Capital,
easy to defend and hard to breach.
But should the Northern Desert resolve
its internal strife, return with force,
and bring the surrounding minor states
into the fold,
a flanking assault could spell trouble.
May I then send envoys
to build ties with neighboring states
and avoid war?
A wise thought, Your Majesty.
Military strength and diplomacy
are both essential
to the art of governance.
Bear in mind that the greatest victory
is to avoid war.
Peace is what endures.
Hold the sword as you would a fist.
Loosen your grip even once,
and all is lost.
Zhao, I understand.
Ruling is like a game of strategy.
It matters not who moves first,
only who has the last laugh.
Much like what you are doing now.
Yanfang, you always said
the noble families were deeply entangled.
So we learned from you,
traced each root to its source,
and pulled them all out.
Yanlai,
since you are alive, why not come home?
After I pass away,
the immense power of the Xie Family
and the position of clan head
will all be yours.
Why make such a choice?
What exactly are you trying to do?
No one reads hearts well as you do.
How can you not know that what I want
is to take the Xie Family's
century-old legacy with me to the grave?
The clan elders must regret not killing me
when they could,
only for me, too low-born
to enter the genealogy
to end the Xie's bloodline for good.
Yanlai.
Seeing you like this, so deranged,
I almost see myself.
Indeed.
I am the baby wolf
you spent years shaping.
Remember, my brother?
We've won
this game after all.
Good.
Splendid.
TABLET OF XIE YANLAI
Yanfang, do you know
why you lost this game?
For all your plotting,
you forgot one thing.
The most brilliant schemes
are the ones that ensnare their maker.
Xie Yanfang, you were so confident
that you never doubted you were the one
moving the pieces.
Little did you know the very web you wove
would be the one to close around you.
Surprising, isn't it?
The piece
you thought to command at will
has made you a discarded pawn of fate.
Mr. Xie, Her Highness is but a woman.
What does she have
that makes you treat her so differently?
She is…
different.
Chu Zhao.
A move made is a move set.
I lost.
And I own it.
HONOR THE CLAN, UNITE THE KIN
I see no difference between people.
But once a difference appears,
the heart tilts.
And a tilted heart becomes a prison.
From this day onward…
DILIGENT AND VIRTUOUS
…taxes across all prefectures
shall be reduced by 30%.
-Your Majesty is wise.
Furthermore, the laws of the State of Chu
shall be revised.
Anyone found colluding with foreign powers
shall be held collectively responsible,
and their entire clan
shall be exterminated.
IN 5TH YEAR OF XINGPING, XIE FACTION FELL.
EMPEROR RESUMES POWER. A NEW ERA BEGINS
SERVE WITH LOYALTY, GUARD WITH DILIGENCE
IMPERIAL GUARD OFFICE
No luck with the hares,
so you're after me now?
You're just easier to catch.
Every creature on these grasslands
is cunning.
I just had
a nightmare.
So even you have fears, General Xie?
In the dream, death tore us apart.
Don't say that.
We still have many years ahead of us.
Agreed.
Then we shall guard
Yunzhong Prefecture side by side,
day after day,
year after year,
to the very end.
I intend to expand
the place where I used to live.
Why the rush to renovate?
There is every reason.
I want to marry you.
Let's build a home together.
What do you say?
In the 11th month
of the 13th year of Xingping,
the Grand Princess withdrew
into seclusion on account of illness.
The Yunzhong frontier troops
established the Princess's encampment.